fix: rename tutorial and update to use template (#527)
pyOpenSci/python-package-guide: tutorials/create-python-package.md

> ---

Author: This is where the actual lesson content is updated.

:og:description: Learn how to create a Python package and make your code installable using Hatch. This tutorial walks you through structuring your code and configuring a pyproject.toml so others can easily install and use your package.
:og:title: Create a Python package from scratch, a beginner-friendly tutorial
---

> (create-pure-python-package)=

Reviewer: makes sense to me! let us know if this works better :). 

one thing that might be helpful here is one sentence that says what a python package is, unless this is explained elsewhere. i like the change in title/url, but just add back in that one bit of context: why are we making a package again? oh yeah so we can install and distribute it". this is explained in passing in line 18 (or what is now line 18), but if you didn't already know that's what a package did or that a `pyproject.toml` is ~synonymous with creating a package, the connection may not be clear.

maybe even a minor rewording of the opening sentences would do this. "your package will be installable ... into a python environment" -> something like "a python package is a 'unit' of code that can be installed and used just like other packages you may have seen `import`ed at the top of a file like `import numpy`." idk not exactly that, just giving some concreteness to what the idea of "package" is before the rest of the lesson walks them through it

After this question, the template will ask you for your preferred GitHub username and will then create a package with basic tests, documentation, and GitHub configuration setup for you.

```console

➜ copier copy . _law_tests/ --vcs-ref contributing
🎤 Who is the copyright holder, for example, yourself or your organization?
   pyOpenSci
🎤 Who is the author of the package to be? Used in the package description.
   pyOpenSci
🎤 The author's email address. Used in the package description.
   pyopensci@pyopensci.org
🎤 What is the name of the project? Used as the title in the README.md and
   pyospackage
🎤 Please provide a short description for the package.
    (Finish with 'Alt+Enter' or 'Esc then Enter')
> A small template package that does cool things.

🎤 Do you want to answer one more question, and skip the rest, using the default values?
   Yes, but with a minimal setup (package, tests and docs only).
🎤 Provide you or your organization's GitHub username. Used to generate certain documentation...
   pyopensci

Copying from template version 0.6.2

>     create  CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Reviewer: (this could probably be omitted or abbreviated because it might look forbidding to someone glancing at the page who is not used to seeing text scroll by all day, and the directory structure is printed more readably below)

```console
└── .github/ # a hidden directory with templates for github and actions to run your tests
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── pyproject.toml
└── src/  # This is your package directory where your code lives
└── docs/ # this is where your documentation lives
└── tests/ # Your tests are here
```

:::{dropdown} A full package with tests, docs, and GitHub infrastructure
:animate: fade-in-slide-down

If you use the "bells and whistles" default option when working through the template prompts,
our template will create a complete package setup with GitHub CI actions, typing, tests, environments
, and more using Hatch. If you customize the entire package, then you can select what platform you wish to host it on (GitHub vs GitLab), whether you want typing, what documentation engine you want to use, and more.

The resulting package directory looks like this

```console
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── docs # This defaults to sphinx docs
│   ├── conf.py
│   └── index.md
├── pyproject.toml
├── src/   # This is your package directory where your code lives

> │   └── pyospackage_pyopensci
>         └── example.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
│   └── pyospackage_pyopensci/
|       ├── __init__.py
|       └── example.py
```

Author: No - that is actually a mistake. GOOD CATCH!  it is super important for it to be there.

└── tests/   # This is where your tests live, you don't need subdirectories, but they are nice to have
    ├── integration/
    ├── system/
    └── unit/
        └── test_example.py
```

The default tools that your package uses are:

* [Sphinx](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/documentation/hosting-tools/sphinx-python-package-documentation-tools.html) with the pydata_sphinx_theme for documentation
* pytest for testing
* Hatch for environment setup

**Full customization**
If you want to customize any elements of your package setup, choose `No, I want to fully customize the template.`.  This will allow you to select:

> * sphinx vs makedocs vs no documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* sphinx vs [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) vs no documentation
```

   pyopensci@pyopensci.org
🎤 What is the name of the project? Used as the title in the README.md and
   pyospackage
🎤 Please provide a short description for the package.
    (Finish with 'Alt+Enter' or 'Esc then Enter')
> A small template package that does cool things.

🎤 Do you want to answer one more question, and skip the rest, using the default values?
   Yes, but with a minimal setup (package, tests and docs only).
🎤 Provide you or your organization's GitHub username. Used to generate certain documentation...
   pyopensci

Copying from template version 0.6.2
    create  CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    create  .gitignore
    create  CHANGELOG.md
    create  LICENSE
    create  README.md
    create  tests
    create  tests/unit
    create  tests/unit/.keep
    create  tests/integration
    create  tests/integration/.keep
    create  tests/system
    create  tests/system/test_import.py
    create  tests/system/.keep
    create  .editorconfig
    create  .github
    create  .github/SUPPORT.md
    create  .github/workflows
    create  .github/workflows/release.yml
    create  .github/workflows/test.yml
    create  .github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md
    create  .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE

>     create  .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/config.yml

Author: I'm wondering if we want to remove github templates for the basic package or not?

Reviewer: that makes intuitive sense to me for what `minimal` default means! 

so then we would have some option for "create CI workflows and templates" or smth? because if i were to use this template i would definitely want to be able to flip this on and off bc i have my own stuff i like to use here, but definitely see the benefit of having it here if you want it!!!!

Author: fantastic. I ended up removing a bunch of these workflows to keep things simple. thanks!!

Above, you use`python -m` to call the version of pip installed into your
current active environment. `python -m` is important to ensure that you are
calling the version of pip installed in your current environment.

> IMPORTANT: pip can also be used to install packages from PyPI. However, in this case, you are telling pip to install your package from a local folder by using the `.`. You could also specify a path to the project directory on your computer instead of the `.` which tells pip to use the current working directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: pip can also be used to install packages from PyPI. However, in this case, you are telling pip to install your package from a local folder by using the `.`, which is a shorthand for the current directory. You could also specify a path to a package in a different directory on your computer like `python -m /home/me/another_package`.
```

After installing your package, type “python” at the command prompt in your chosen terminal to start
a Python session in your active Python environment.

You can now import your package and access the `add_numbers` function.

```bash
➜ python
Python 3.11.4 | packaged by conda-forge
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> from pyospackage.example import add_numbers

> >>> add_numbers(1, 2)

Reviewer: good call

Author: Yay! glad you like that. I thought it would be awesome to give folks a ready-to-go package that they can then customize. I learn better that way. Then, in the workshop, we will have a huge win in the first 30 minutes! People who didn't get the package running until the end last year, will be able to keep up even if they don't customize too much.
